# **Vehicles**

## **Ship classes**

Nearest Galaxy to Earth is 25,000 LY  
It takes an X-blade 6 hours to travel that far at 7LY per turn (6 seconds)  
It takes an X-blade 1 day to travel 100,000 LY  
Silveronia galaxy is 1,000,000 LY across

Macador is 400,000,000 LY from “west” edge of Silveronia  
Edge of Milky Way is 100,000,000 LY in the same direction  
Erolye edge is 1,000,000,000 LY “south” of edge Silveronia  
Daelonae edge is 224,000,000 LY “southwest” of Silveronia, and 200,000,000 LY “south” of Milky Way edge 

1 inventory slot can hold up to 1 ton

Linear guided bombs can only fly in a straight line  
Guided missiles can fly around targets and terrain  
Non-guided bombs and missiles can only be launched forward and in a straight line

Regular air to ground bomb/torpedos: 0.25 tons of weight, 20 cc each, non-guided  
Space to spacecraft Reaper Bomb: 0.25 tons of weight, 40 cc each each, guided (linear)  
Space to spacecraft Reaper Missiles: 0.5 tons of weight, 50 cc each, guided missile  
Air to air missiles: 0.25 tons of weight, 30 cc each, guided  
Whistles: 1 ton of weight, 5k cc each, guided missiles

Ship Parts \- Starships have many different parts, but the important and common ones found in almost all ships are found here:

Frame \- There are many different frames used for starship creation, of many different shapes and designs. The first is the arrowhead, used for most fighters and bombers, which is a triangular shape, pointed at the front and flat towards the rear. The second is the keyhole, which is a long rounded tube at the top with a rectangular cargo hold underneath. This is used for most cargo freighters and a few diplomatic shuttles. The third and final is the hexagon, which is actually a long rectangular shape with pinched sides, forming a sort of long hexagonal tube. This is used for capital warships and some diplomatic shuttles, and may be either flat or pointed in the front. 

Cockpit \- The cockpit varies based on ship type and number of pilots. In most single man ships, the control system is the dual lever system, allowing full control of the ship’s maneuvering using the two hand levers and foot pedals, along with many switches and buttons. In two pilot configurations, a standard control wheel with pedals is used, rather than levers. In three or four pilot configurations, a standard control wheel is used, along with several levers, scrapping the foot pedals. In any higher of a configuration, there are typically several different stations in the cockpit area which allows for several different individuals to help control trajectory, targeting systems, power allocation, and other various features of piloting.

Fuel System \- There are not very many types of fuel systems in starfighters. To allow for deep space travel and standard travel, fuel is not generally used in the traditional sense. Rather, the engines are a type of electrical engine that also uses elemental energy for power. This means that most modern ships are powered by generators that feed off of elemental-type gems. So for the fuel systems, elemental energy is generated by elemental gems used in the generators for the ships. These generators create energy by spinning the elemental gems using magnetic field manipulation, whether that be by using electrical energy or by using rotating magnets. Rotating magnets are the most popular, as they are the most effective at creating energy. As fast as one can spin the magnet is as fast as the elemental gems will spin, as Crystalarium and other elemental gems are able to be magnetically locked similarly to superconductors. Once magnetically locked, the gem will spin in time with the magnet, if the magnet is to rotate on the x axis, so will the gem, and this is true of all axes. This is a strange phenomenon that allows FTL travel to be possible using these gems. By changing the speed and direction that the magnets spin within the generators, one can change the amount of energy that flows through the thrusters, which in turn can change the speed at which the spacecraft can fly. The more energy that builds up in the generator, the more thrust that can be pushed through the engines. Rotation that is parallel to the opening of the thrusters is typically the most efficient for standard flight. For slightly longer distances, the electrical energy in the generator is increased so that the magnetic lock spins the gem faster than the magnet. For Zerospace Transit, the rotation is switched to be perpendicular to the opening of the thruster, which causes a large buildup of energy that can then be pushed out in massive waves, thrusting a ship through Zerospace. Zerospace is called such because when traveling at these speeds, traces of existence are temporarily reduced to zero and one is basically transported to another dimension. Ships moving through zerospace can fly in a straight line towards wherever they are going, but have to make sure to exit zerospace when still in outer space. If it is exited when inside an object, the generator will cause a small gravitational anomaly and cause a large explosion. This is why navigational computers are important for Zerospace transit.

Engines \- Now we get to more interesting things. The engines vary greatly based on ship design and manufacturer. For most Silveronian ships, which is what we are mainly focusing on, you will find the extremely powerful and versatile Zero Element Focus Drives, or ZEF Drives for short. These drives are extremely effective in regular maneuvering, as well as being fully activated for Zerospace Transit. This allows them to use FTL travel as well as regular speeds, without requiring multiple engines and systems. These engines are highly scalable based on the size of the fuel system and ZEF Drive itself. ZEF Drives allow for regular thruster, pulse drive, and warp drive modes, meaning they can travel at regular speeds up to 500 mph, then switching modes to go from 500 mph to past Mach 10,000, then finally reaching FTL speeds of up to 2 LY per second, and those speeds are just the small craft speeds. Larger ships can have FTL speeds upwards of 10,000 LY per second. The ZEF Drives accomplish this by turning elemental energy into direct propulsion energy, using the energy that connects all things in the universe and through magnificent technology, turning that energy into a form of propulsion that can cross galaxies in mere minutes. There are other variants out there as well, such as ZEHF (Zero Element Hyper Focus) Drives and ZEDF (Zero Element Dual Focus) Drives. The former are extremely rare because of their instability if manufactured incorrectly, though if done to proper safety standards, they can outperform ZEF Drives by a factor of ten, and the latter are also rare, due to the fact that they require two separate generators, creating a strange phenomenon where the engine uses less power between the two generators, while also increasing performance, however, the use of two generators is impractical from a wiring standpoint, and either of these drives are usually custom jobs that are very expensive.

Weaponry \- Weaponry is detailed out on a per ship basis, as this varies widely and can be anything from reaper cannons, which are high-powered single shot energy cannons, to standard energy lasers, which are precision laser cannons that fire a focused beam of elemental energy, to whistles, which are heavy guided missiles that are charged with highly unstable and explosive elemental fusion cores.

X \= armed for regular combat  
S \= shapeshifter  
C \= large  
F \= unarmed (mostly freight)  
T \= armed for defense only  
Z \= extremely maneuverable  
L \= Luxury/Noble  
J \= Bomber  
Y \= Capital ship

First number \= speed from 1-9  
Second number \= number of weapons equipped  
Third number \= number of pilots 2-10

Fighter \- XS74 “X-Blade” | XZ92 “Kutana”  
Cargo freighter \- CF202 “Butraen” | CT262 “Meite”  
Diplomatic shuttle \- LT42 “Diamond” | LF50 “Ruby”  
Bomber \- JXS532 “J-Sword” | JCX473 “Apocalypse”  
Heavy weapons fighter \- XS3202 “Overkill” | XZC9204 “Vortzhe”  
Capital warship \- LYTC11508 “Starcrusher” | YXC230010 “Planet Breaker”

Research Vessel \- F30 “Comet”

Fighters \= 30-50 feet long, 10-21 foot wingspans, 10-15 feet tall  
Cargo Freighters \= 1000-1500 feet long, 500-1000 feet wingspans, 300-500 feet tall  
Diplomatic Shuttles \= 25-40 feet long, 10-21 foot wingspans, 9-15 feet tall  
Bombers \= 80-100 feet long, 21-40 foot wingspans, 15-21 feet tall  
Heavy Weapons Fighters \= 70-100 feet long, 20-40 foot wingspans, 14-21 feet tall  
Capital Warship \= up to 30 miles long, up to 10 miles wide, up to 2 miles high  
Research Vessels \= Variable sizing

X-Blade Stat Block

The XS74 extraterrestrial combat vehicle, also known as the “X-Blade,” is the preferred combat vehicle of the Silveronians. It is known for its versatility and all around adaptive abilities in any area of combat. They are the most widely used combat vehicle in Silveronia due to its ability to shapeshift, meaning it has tank, submarine, boat, aircraft, spacecraft, underground, and mech forms, among others. It is also used as a utility vehicle, as it can be shifted into a tractor, small utility truck, or buggy as well.

Armor Class: 18  
Hit points: 220 (20d12 \+ 90\)  
Weight: 10 tons  
Number of pilots: 1  
Speed: 700ft(regular thrusters)/500kmiles(pulse drive)/7LY(Zerospace)  
70ft(buggy tires)  
50ft(tank treads)  
50ft(aquatic thrusters)  
40ft(mech legs)  
50ft(all other land modes)  
Inventory space: 5 hidden slots, 3 open slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 1 million gp/10k cc

Actions:

Fire standard cannons (only in air and land modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire Reaper Cannons (only in spacecraft mode) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, two targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Fire Reaper Round (only in tank mode) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 300ft/500ft in a 15ft radius sphere, one target. Hit: 180 (20d12 \+ 50\) elemental damage, split between all creatures hit

Fire Hydro-cannons (only in sea modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 200ft/500ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Shapeshift \- spend 1 action to transform the XS74 into any of its 10 modes: 1\) tank, 2\) submarine, 3\) boat, 4\) aircraft, 5\) spacecraft, 6\) underground, 7\) mech, 8\) tractor, 9\) utility truck, or 10\) buggy (tractor, utility truck, buggy, and underground sacrifice weapon capabilities for tools)

Utilize tool \- tractor can be used as a plow for farming, utility truck as all-terrain vehicle with additional 5 open slots of cargo space, buggy as fast and agile ground vehicle, and underground as drill for mining.

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

XZ92 Stat Block

The XZ92 high-speed combat spacecraft, also known as the “Kutana,” is a highly maneuverable space fighter known for its usefulness in precision strike operations and space combat in extreme conditions. These spacecraft are extremely vulnerable, if you can hit them, that is. They move at a much higher rate of speed than almost any other Silveronian spacecraft, and are almost impossible to lock onto in combat. They also have a way of slowing down time for the pilot, making it significantly easier to maneuver through tight spaces, but also wearing on the pilot more than the average fighter.

Armor Class: 22  
Hit Points: 130 (20d12)  
Weight: 8 tons  
Number of pilots: 1  
Speed: 900ft(regular thrusters)/800kmiles(pulse drive)/10LY(Zerospace)  
Inventory space: 2 open slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 1 million gp/10k cc

Time Warped \- This ship has time slowing abilities for the pilot. This allows for better accuracy, making it easier to attack enemies, but wearing down on the pilot. It also has advantage on any combat maneuver rolls. Each half-day this ship is flown without a long rest will add 1 level of exhaustion to the pilot.

Actions:

Fire standard cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+11 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

CF202 Stat Block

The CF202 cargo/trade freighter, also known as the “Butraen,” is the preferred trade operations/cargo freighter/troop carrier of the Silveronians. It has the space to hold up to 800 X-Blade fighters, or 8000 tons of cargo. They are widely used for cargo runs, as they are unarmed and come off as friendly or vulnerable to any passersby. However, they are far from vulnerable. They often carry weapons, fighter ships, and skilled crew members. They are preferred for weapons smuggling because they can easily be rigged for hidden cargo space, and they are, for the most part, invulnerable to any conventional weapons.

Armor Class: 23  
Hit Points: 600 (50d20 \+ 75\)  
Weight: 100k tons  
Number of pilots: 2 (pilot, co-pilot)  
Speed: 200ft(regular thrusters)/1Mmiles(pulse drive)/14kLY(Zerospace)  
Inventory space: 8000 open slots (1000 slots can be converted into hidden)  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 400 million gp/4 million cc

CT262 Stat Block

The CT262 cargo/trade freighter, also known as the “Meite,” is a heavily armed defensive carrier, mostly used for transport of prisoners of war and highly valuable cargo. It has the space to hold up to 800 X-Blade fighters, or 8000 tons of cargo. They are also armed with 4 standard cannons and 2 reaper cannons. They are heavily armored and extremely hard to take down or break into, as they have almost entirely hidden cargo space. They would be preferable for trade, as they are better protected, but the design is well known to be a threat, and are less likely to be allowed for peaceful trade.

Armor Class: 23  
Hit Points: 600 (50d20 \+ 75\)  
Weight: 150k tons  
Number of pilots: 2 (pilot, gunner)  
Speed: 200ft(regular thrusters)/1Mmiles(pulse drive)/14kLY(Zerospace)  
Inventory space: 8000 hidden slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 600 million gp/6 million cc

Actions:

Defensive Spacecraft \- All actions can only be used as reactions to attacks from another spacecraft. This ship cannot initiate attacks against other spacecraft or creatures

Fire standard cannons \- ranged weapons attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, four targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire Reaper Cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, two targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

LT42 Stat Block

The LT42 diplomatic defensive shuttle, also known as the “Diamond,” is the preferred mode of transportation for diplomatic parties traveling between worlds for diplomatic affairs. They are known for providing extreme comfort inside, with extreme deadly protection outside. These shuttles almost never need an armed escort, because they are defensively armed themselves, and hold up quite well under heavy fire.

Armor Class: 18  
Hit points: 230 (20d12 \+ 100\)  
Weight: 9 tons  
Number of pilots: 1  
Speed: 400ft(regular thrusters)/500kmiles(pulse drive)/8LY(Zerospace)  
Inventory space: 4 open slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 2 billion gp/20 million cc

Actions:

Defensive Spacecraft \- All actions can only be used as reactions to attacks from another spacecraft. This ship cannot initiate attacks against other spacecraft or creatures

Fire standard cannons (only in air and land modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

LF50 Stat Block

The LF50 diplomatic shuttle, also known as the “Ruby,” is the preferred mode of transportation for diplomatic parties traveling between worlds and galaxies for trade affairs. They are known for being very comfortable and stylish on the inside and outside, showing the other trading party that whoever is inside is of high rank and wealthy. These shuttles often have an armed transport of two or three XS74s to ensure the safety of whoever is inside.

Armor Class: 16  
Hit Points: 160 (20d12+ 30\)  
Weight: 8 tons  
Number of pilots: 1  
Speed:500ft(regular thrusters)/500kmiles(pulse drive)/9LY(Zerospace)  
Inventory Space: 3 open slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 2 billion gp/20 million cc

JXS532 Stat Block

The JXS532 adaptive superbomber, known as the “J-Sword,” is one of the most versatile combat vessels of any Silveronian fleet. They are known for their powerful destructive abilities, and also for their shape shifting abilities. Similar to the X-Blade, the J-Sword also has many forms, the main differences being that the X-Blade is used for general combat and agriculture, and the J-Sword is used for sieges and construction.

Armor Class: 20  
Hit points: 230 (20d12 \+ 90\)  
Weight: 24 tons  
Number of pilots: 2 (pilot, bomber)  
Speed: 500ft(regular thrusters)/450kmiles(pulse drive)/7LY(Zerospace)  
55ft(buggy tires)  
50ft(tank treads)  
50ft(aquatic thrusters)  
40ft(mech legs)  
45ft(all other land modes)  
Inventory space: 3 open slots, 4 bomb slots (reaper and air to ground)  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 1.2 million gp/12k cc

Actions:

Fire standard cannons (only in air and land modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Drop bomb/torpedo (only in air and sea modes) \- ranged weapon attack. Range 400ft, four targets. Choose a point in front of the vehicle within range to drop a bomb. Any creature within a 20ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 18 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire space-to-spacecraft Reaper Bombs \- ranged weapon attack. Range 800ft, four targets. Choose a point within range to fire a guided space bomb. Any spacecraft within a 100ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire Hydro-cannons (only in sea modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 200ft/500ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Shapeshift \- spend 1 action to transform the JXS532 into any of its 8 modes: 1\) siege tank, 2\) battle sub, 3\) siege boat, 4\) bomber, 5\) spacebomber, 6\) construction hub, 7\) mech, 8\) armored utility truck (construction hub and armored utility truck sacrifice weapon capabilities for tools)

Utilize tool \- Construction hub can be used as a digger, crane, and dump truck, and armored utility truck as all-terrain vehicle with additional 5 open slots of hidden cargo space.

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

JCX473 Stat Block

The JCX473 heavy siege spacecraft, also known as the “Apocalypse,” named after the legendary fire sword that is granted by the power inside. The Apocalypse is an extremely powerful siege vehicle used exclusively in heavy planetary bombardment missions. They are very large, heavily armored, and almost impossible to withstand when they attack. They are greatly feared by most Silveronians, and are used only as a last resort weapon due to their destructive capabilities.

Armor Class: 25  
Hit points: 402 (4d100 \+ 200\)  
Weight: 100k tons   
Number of pilots: 3 (pilot, gunner, bomber)  
Speed: 400ft(regular thrusters)/500kmiles(pulse drive)/7LY(Zerospace)  
Inventory space: 3 open slots, 12 bomb slots, 10 missile slots, 2 whistle slots  
Fuel: 2 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 500 million gp/5 million cc

Actions:

Fire standard cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire reaper cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, two targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Drop bomb/torpedo \- ranged weapon attack. Range 400ft, 12 targets. Choose a point in front of the vehicle within range to drop a bomb. Any creature within a 20ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 18 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire space-to-spacecraft Reaper Bombs \- ranged weapon attack. Range 800ft, 12 targets. Choose a point within range to fire a guided space bomb. Any spacecraft within a 100ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire air to air missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 500ft, 10 targets. Choose a target within range that is in the air. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked

Fire space to spacecraft reaper missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1000ft, 10 targets. Choose a target within range that is in space. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire whistles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1 mile, 2 targets. Choose a point within range. Any targets within 250ft of detonation point must make a DC 23 Dex save for half damage or take 604 (8d100 \+ 200\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

XS3202 Stat Block

The XS3202 heavy weapons combat vehicle, also known as the “Overkill,” is a deadly vehicle used by the Silveronians in times of war. They are known for their use in annihilating warships and swarms of fighters with ease, and are greatly revered for their shape shifting capabilities. They aren’t fast, but their sheer number of heavy cannons is enough to strike fear in the hearts of any opposition.

Armor Class: 20  
Hit points: 352 (4d100 \+ 150\)  
Weight: 23 tons   
Number of pilots: 2 (pilot, gunner)  
Speed: 300ft(regular thrusters)/400kmiles(pulse drive)/7LY(Zerospace)  
40ft(tank treads)  
40ft(aquatic thrusters)  
Inventory space: 3 open slots, 5 hidden slots, 10 missile slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc  
Actions:

Fire standard cannons (only in air and land modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, nine targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+5) elemental damage

Fire reaper cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, ten targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Fire air to air missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 500ft, 10 targets. Choose a target within range that is in the air. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked

Fire space to spacecraft reaper missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1000ft, 10 targets. Choose a target within range that is in space. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire Hydro-cannons (only in sea modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 200ft/500ft, nine targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire Reaper Round (only in tank mode) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 300ft/500ft in a 15ft radius sphere, five targets. Hit: 180 (20d12 \+ 50\) elemental damage, split between all creatures hit

Shapeshift \- spend 1 action to transform the XS3202 into any of its 4 modes: 1\) tank, 2\) boat, 3\) aircraft, 4\) spacecraft

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

XZC9204 Stat Block

The XZC9204 heavy weapons combat destroyer, also known as the “Vortzhe,” is easily the most dangerous vehicle in the Silveronian fleet, bar Capital warships. The Vortzhe is armed with a large array of guns, missiles, bombs, whistles, and has a cargo space to carry along a smaller fighter as well. Being unbelievably maneuverable and fast for their size, they are used almost exclusively for small strike missions and in times of war.

Armor Class: 18  
Hit points: 250 (20d12 \+ 120\)  
Weight: 10k tons (plus an additional 12 tons of weaponry)  
Number of pilots: 4 (pilot, bomber, 2 gunners)  
Speed: 900ft(regular thrusters)/800kmiles(pulse drive)/9LY(Zerospace)  
Inventory space: 50 ship slots (1 ship max), 5 hidden slots, 5 open slots, 12 bomb slots, 14 missile slots, 2 whistle slots  
Fuel: 2 Crystalarium crystals per day of operation  
Cost: 700 million gp/7 million cc

Actions:

Fire standard cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, eight targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire reaper cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, nine targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Drop bomb/torpedo \- ranged weapon attack. Range 400ft, 12 targets. Choose a point in front of the vehicle within range to drop a bomb. Any creature within a 20ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 18 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire space-to-spacecraft Reaper Bombs \- ranged weapon attack. Range 800ft, 12 targets. Choose a point within range to fire a guided space bomb. Any spacecraft within a 100ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire air to air missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 500ft, 14 targets. Choose a target within range that is in the air. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked

Fire space to spacecraft reaper missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1000ft, 14 targets. Choose a target within range that is in space. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire whistles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1 mile, 2 targets. Choose a point within range. Any targets within 250ft of detonation point must make a DC 23 Dex save for half damage or take 604 (8d100 \+ 200\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

LYTC11508 Stat Block

The LYTC11508 Capital Defense Warship, also known as the “Starcrusher,” is the second largest ship in the Silveronian fleet. It is armed for defense only, and cannot initiate any attacks against foes. These ships are used to defend important planets, such as Ninjonia, the head planet of the Ninjonian Cluster, from intergalactic war. They are also used in negotiating peace treaties, as they are heavily armed, but can only attack if attacked first.

Armor Class: 28  
Hit points: 1005 (10d100 \+ 500\)  
Weight: 3 billion tons   
Number of pilots: 8 (2 pilots, 4 gunners, 2 engineers)  
Speed: 100ft(regular thrusters)/1Mmiles(pulse drive)/20kLY(Zerospace)   
Inventory space: 900 million open slots  
Fuel: 6 Crystalarium crystals per day of operation  
Cost: 3 billion gp/30 million cc

Actions:

Defensive Spacecraft \- All actions can only be used as reactions to attacks from another spacecraft. This ship cannot initiate attacks against other spacecraft or creatures

Fire standard cannons \- ranged weapons attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, 75 targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire Reaper Cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, 75 targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

YXC225410 Stat Block

The YXC225410 Capital Warship, also known as the “Planet Breaker,” is the capital warship of the Silveronian fleet. In dire times, times of great war and of great horror, the planet breaker is called upon. Any standard ship doesn’t stand a chance against this behemoth. It has the power to literally break planets in two, though this capability has never been used on a planet with life. If one of these shows up, it means you surrender, or you die. There is no alternative.

Armor Class: 29  
Hit points: 2050 (100d20 \+ 1000\)  
Weight: 500 million tons   
Number of pilots: 10 (3 pilots, 4 gunners, 2 bombers, 1 engineer)  
Speed: 200ft(regular thrusters)/2Mmiles(pulse drive)/40kLY(Zerospace)  
Inventory space: 10 million open slots, 5 million hidden slots, 60k bomb slots, 100k missile slots, and 10k whistle slots  
Fuel: 8 Crystalarium crystals per day of operation  
Cost: 5 billion gp/50 million cc

Actions:

Fire standard cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, 125 targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire reaper cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, 125 targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Drop bomb \- ranged weapon attack. Range 400ft, 60 targets. Choose a point in front of the vehicle within range to drop a bomb. Any creature within a 20ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 18 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire space-to-spacecraft Reaper Bombs \- ranged weapon attack. Range 800ft, 60 targets. Choose a point within range to fire a guided space bomb. Any spacecraft within a 100ft radius of the bomb must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire air to air missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 500ft, 100 targets. Choose a target within range that is in the air. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 80 (9d12 \+ 21\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked

Fire space to spacecraft reaper missiles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1000ft, 100 targets. Choose a target within range that is in space. Target must make a DC 20 Dex save for half damage or take 105 (10d20) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire whistles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1 mile, 10 targets. Choose a point within range. Any targets within 250ft of detonation point must make a DC 23 Dex save for half damage or take 604 (8d100 \+ 200\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Fire Planet Breaker \- ranged weapon attack. Range 10k miles, 1 target. Choose a planet or capital ship within range. The DM must roll a nat 20 for planetary life to survive the split, or the player with the capital ship must make a DC 30 con save for half damage or take 4000 elemental damage. This weapon can only be used with a 9th level spell slot.

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Guardian’s Claw Stat Block

The Guardian’s Claw is a heavily modified XS74 extraterrestrial combat vehicle, also known as the “X-Blade.” This ship is owned by Arcaeus Wolfe in the Legends of the Elsaither series, and is fitted with a custom Dual ZEHF (or ZEHDF) drive, making this ship unreasonably fast and efficient, but also expensive and one of a kind. It is known for its versatility and all around adaptive abilities in any area of combat. The weapon fittings are the same as standard X-blades with the addition of two whistle slots. The armor plating is Ninjarikan Klaristun mixed with Crystalarium, making this ship fast, efficient, deadly, and hard to kill. This makes the Guardian’s Claw one of the most dangerous ships to be on the wrong side of the cannon, as there are very few who survive its lashes.

Armor Class: 20  
Hit points: 280 (20d12 \+ 150\)  
Weight: 25 tons  
Number of pilots: 1  
Speed: 1800ft(regular thrusters)/1.2Mmiles(pulse drive)/20LY(Zerospace)  
90ft(buggy tires)  
70ft(tank treads)  
70ft(aquatic thrusters)  
60ft(mech legs)  
70ft(all other land modes)  
Inventory space: 6 hidden slots, 2 open slots, 2 whistle slots  
Fuel: 6 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 950 million gp/9.5 million cc

Actions:

Fire standard cannons (only in air and land modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire Reaper Cannons (only in spacecraft mode) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 1000ft/2miles, two targets. Hit: 65 (10d12) elemental damage

Fire Reaper Round (only in tank mode) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 300ft/500ft in a 15ft radius sphere, one target. Hit: 180 (20d12 \+ 50\) elemental damage, split between all creatures hit

Fire Hydro-cannons (only in sea modes) \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 200ft/500ft, two targets. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 5\) elemental damage

Fire whistles \- ranged weapon attack. Range 1 mile, 2 targets. Choose a point within range. Any targets within 250ft of detonation point must make a DC 23 Dex save for half damage or take 604 (8d100 \+ 200\) elemental damage. Can only be used once before having to be reloaded when landed or docked.

Shapeshift \- spend 1 bonus action to transform the XS74 into any of its 10 modes: 1\) tank, 2\) submarine, 3\) boat, 4\) aircraft, 5\) spacecraft, 6\) underground, 7\) mech, 8\) tractor, 9\) utility truck, or 10\) buggy (tractor, utility truck, buggy, and underground sacrifice weapon capabilities for tools)

Utilize tool \- tractor can be used as a plow for farming, utility truck as all-terrain vehicle with additional 5 open slots of cargo space, buggy as fast and agile ground vehicle, and underground as drill for mining.

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

## **Land Vehicles**

1 inventory slot can hold up to 200lb

Linear guided missiles can only fly in a straight line  
Guided missiles can fly around targets and terrain  
Non-guided missiles have no propulsion system

Regular ground to air missiles: 0.25 tons of weight, 20 cc each, guided (linear)  
Ground to ground missiles: 0.25 tons of weight, 30 cc each, non guided  
Whistles: 1 ton of weight, 5k cc each, guided

Vehicle Parts \- Land vehicles have many different parts, but the important and common ones found in most land vehicles are found here:

Engine \- The engines found in land vehicles are very similar to ZEF drives, in that they rely on Crystalarium rotational pressure energy to run. They are magnetically locked, same as ZEF drives, and build energized pressure based on the crystalarium housed within, and are also powered electrically. The main difference is that these engines are much smaller, and thus less powerful, and instead of the energy being released directly into a thruster, it is pushed into a sort of crankshaft, called an energy drive, that rotates as the energy courses through it. Excess energy is pushed out the exhaust, and as the energy drive spins, it generates the torque required to move the driveshaft, and in turn, the rest of the vehicle.

Frame \- There are many different frames used for land vehicles, of many different shapes and designs. Several vehicle types include the tank, the buggy, the mech, and the utility truck. There are also different frames for each type of land vehicle. Each frame can be categorized as light, medium, or heavy frame, which, when paired with a shell, determines the vehicles overall HP and AC.

Light Frame \- 65 (10d12) HP, 10 AC, 200 ft Speed, 0 Cargo Modifier  
Medium Frame \- 95 (15d12) HP, 12 AC, 150 ft Speed, \+5 Cargo Modifier  
Heavy Frame \- 130 (20d12) HP, 15 AC, 100 ft Speed, \-5 Cargo Modifier

Tank \- \+50 HP Modifier, \+2 AC, \+0 Speed Modifier, \+2 Cargo Modifier  
Buggy \- \+0 HP Modifier, \+0 AC, \+50 Speed Modifier, \+3 Cargo Modifier  
Mech \- \+20 HP Modifier, \+1 AC, \+0 Speed Modifier, \+0 Cargo Modifier  
Utility Truck \- \+10 HP Modifier, \+0 AC, \+0 Speed Modifier, \+5 Cargo Modifier

Shell \- The shell of a land vehicle is what determines whether it is a combat vessel or an unarmed vessel, or somewhere in between. There are four common types of shell: civilian, defensive, combative, and siege. Civilian shells are typically the fastest, and are generally unarmed and very lightly armored. These shells can be mounted to light frames for speed, or medium frames for more cargo space. Defensive shells are typically slower, lightly armed, but extremely defensive, and can be mounted on any size frame. Combative shells are typically lightly armored and well armed, and balanced well between speed, damage output, and armor. These shells can be mounted on any size frame. Siege shells are the most uncommon, and are typically only movable when in standard mode. They can also be switched to siege mode, in which the vehicle plants itself down and activates heavy weapons. These shells can only be mounted on medium and heavy frames. They are typically heavily armored and heavily armed.

Civilian \- Unarmed, \+30 HP Modifier, 5 AC, \+100 Speed Modifier, 10 Cargo Slots  
Defensive \- No Railguns or Missiles, \+150 HP Modifier, 15 AC, \-50 Speed Modifier, 5 Cargo Slots  
Combative \- No Railguns or Siege Cannons, \+50 HP Modifier, 7 AC, \+0 Speed Modifier, 8 Cargo Slots  
Siege \- All Weapons, \+100 HP Modifier, 10 AC, \+0 Speed Modifier, 5 Cargo Slots

Locomotion \- There are four main types of locomotion for land vehicles, those being tank treads, tires, mech legs, and hover wells. Tank treads can conquer any terrain, and often come as either two or four, depending on the use of the vehicle. Tires are very versatile and have many different types, and are often easily interchangeable depending on what the mission calls for. They are also the fastest form of locomotion. Mech legs are used in several different ways, depending on whether or not the legs specialize in rough terrain, climbing, or running. Hover wells are generally not used, due to the massive power drain, but are capable of traversing any terrain, including water.  

Tank Treads \- Terrain Conqueror  
Tires \- Adaptable  
Mech Legs \- Climbing, Adaptable  
Hover Wells \- Any Terrain, Power Drain

Weaponry \- Weaponry is detailed out on a per vehicle basis, as this varies widely and can be anything from Genesis Cannons, which are extremely high-powered single shot railguns, to reaper cannons, to energy lasers, to whistles, and everything in between.

X \= armed for regular combat  
S \= shapeshifter  
C \= large  
F \= unarmed  
Z \= extremely maneuverable  
L \= luxury/noble  
R \= lockdown mode  
M \= mech

First number \= speed from 1-9  
Second number \= number of weapons equipped  
Third number \= size on a scale of 1-9

Tanks \- XC337 “Warbringer” | XRC218 “Tyrant” | X524 “Vengeance”  
Buggies \- FZ902 “Bolt” | XZ812 “Vortex” | X522 “Eclipse”  
Mechs \- MXC246 “Abyss” | MXRC135 “Havoc” | FMZ801 “Turbo”  
Utility Trucks \- F302 “Pathfinder” | F209 “Workhorse” | XC523 “Nomad”

Warbringer Stat Block

The XC337 standard combat tank, known as the “Warbringer,” is a powerful and capable weapon in the hands of a good pilot. The Warbringer is a sturdy combat vehicle featuring moderate speed, balanced firepower, and a substantial frame. Despite its average speed, the XC337 Warbringer excels in durability and versatility. With its reliable performance and formidable armament, it's well-suited for various combat scenarios. Its imposing presence and solid construction make it a dependable asset on the battlefield, capable of withstanding enemy assaults while delivering precise and decisive strikes.

Armor Class: 24  
Hit points: 230 (20d12 \+ 100\)  
Weight: 7 tons  
Speed: 100ft  
Inventory space: 5 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Terrain Conqueror \- This vehicle is unaffected by difficult terrain, and treats it as standard terrain

Actions:

Fire Anti-personnel Cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+5 to hit, range 100ft/300ft, 10 targets. Hit 21 (2d10 \+ 10\) elemental damage

Fire Tank Laser \- ranged weapon attack: Fire a 5-foot wide laser in a 100 ft line, any targets in the area must make a DC 20 DEX save or take 56 (4d12 \+ 30\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Tyrant Stat Block

The XRC218 Tyrant is a commanding combat vehicle boasting formidable size, coupled with moderate speed, and devastating firepower. Equipped with a lockdown mode for the Genesis cannon, a high-powered single-shot railgun, this behemoth of a vehicle dominates the battlefield with its sheer size and firepower. With its imposing presence and unstoppable force, the XRC218 Tyrant strikes fear into the hearts of its enemies, leaving destruction in its wake.

Armor Class: 22  
Hit points: 280 (20d12 \+ 150\)  
Weight: 8 tons  
Speed: 100ft  
Inventory space: 2 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features: 

Siege Weapon \- An action must put the vehicle into siege mode before it is allowed to fire. The weapon stays in siege mode until moved out of siege mode, and while in siege mode, movement speed is reduced to 0 until taken out of siege mode. Coming out of siege mode also requires an action.

Terrain Conqueror \- This vehicle is unaffected by difficult terrain, and treats it as standard terrain

Actions:

Fire Genesis Cannon \- ranged weapon attack: \+8 to hit, range 500ft/1000ft, 1 target. Hit 310 (20d10 \+ 200\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Vengeance Stat Block

The X524 Vengeance is a sleek and agile combat vehicle boasting average speed, reasonable firepower, and compact size for a tank. Despite its modest specifications, the X524 Vengeance excels in versatility and maneuverability. Armed with a combination of advanced weaponry and tactical systems, it is capable of adapting to various combat scenarios with ease. Its compact size allows for swift navigation through tight spaces while still packing a punch against enemy forces. With its relentless determination and precision strikes, the X524 Vengeance embodies the spirit of retribution on the battlefield, seeking justice for its allies and vengeance against its foes.

Armor Class: 21  
Hit points: 195 (15d12 \+ 100\)  
Weight: 4 tons  
Speed: 150ft  
Inventory space: 15 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Terrain Conqueror \- This vehicle is unaffected by difficult terrain, and treats it as standard terrain

Actions:

Fire Guided Missiles \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 400ft/700ft, 10 targets. Hit 53 (6d10 \+ 20\) elemental damage

Fire Tank Missile \- ranged weapon attack: Fire a non-guided missile at a point between 100ft and 300ft of the vehicle. At the point of impact, a 20-ft radius explosion will extend out, dealing damage to all creatures caught in the blast. Creatures must make a DC 20 Dex save or take 82 (5d12 \+ 50\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Bolt Stat Block

The FZ902 Bolt is a nimble and agile civilian buggy renowned for its extreme speed, compact size, and practical design. With its sleek and streamlined exterior, the FZ902 Bolt glides effortlessly through urban streets and rugged terrain alike. Designed for civilian use, it offers unparalleled maneuverability and comfort for everyday transportation. Despite its lack of armament, its exceptional agility allows it to navigate crowded streets and tight spaces with ease. Whether commuting through the city or exploring off-road trails, the FZ902 Bolt provides a smooth and exhilarating ride for its passengers, making it the perfect choice for those seeking adventure and practicality.

Armor Class: 15  
Hit points: 95 (10d12 \+ 30\)  
Weight: 2 tons  
Speed: 350ft  
Inventory space: 13 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 3 million gp/30k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different tires applied for each type of terrain. If the tire matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the tire does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Actions:

This vehicle has no actions other than movement

Vortex Stat Block

The XZ812 Vortex is a lightning-fast combat vehicle, boasting exceptional speed, minimal size, and unparalleled maneuverability. With its aerodynamic design and agile handling, the XZ812 Vortex zips across the battlefield with precision and agility. Though equipped with minimal armament, its speed and maneuverability make it a formidable asset for hit-and-run tactics and reconnaissance missions. Swift and elusive, the XZ812 Vortex strikes fear into the hearts of its adversaries, leaving chaos in its wake.

Armor Class: 17  
Hit points: 115 (10d12 \+ 50\)  
Weight: 2 tons  
Speed: 600ft  
Inventory space: 8 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different tires applied for each type of terrain. If the tire matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the tire does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Zerospace Engine \- This vehicle has a modified Zerospace engine installed, allowing it to reach unprecedented land speeds.

Actions:

Fire Mounted Anti-personnel Cannon \- ranged weapon attack: \+5 to hit, range 100ft/300ft, 5 targets. Hit 21 (2d10 \+ 10\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Eclipse Stat Block

The X522 Eclipse is a versatile combat vehicle featuring moderate speed, minimal armament, and compact size. With its balanced specifications, the X522 Eclipse is capable of adapting to various battlefield scenarios. While not the fastest or heavily armed, its agility and maneuverability make it a reliable asset for reconnaissance missions and hit-and-run tactics. Despite its compact size, it offers sufficient protection for its crew while maintaining a low profile on the battlefield. The X522 Eclipse excels in versatility, offering a balance between speed, armament, and size for strategic deployment.

Armor Class: 17  
Hit points: 115 (10d12 \+ 50\)  
Weight: 2 tons  
Speed: 200ft  
Inventory space: 16 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different tires applied for each type of terrain. If the tire matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the tire does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Actions:

Fire Anti-personnel Cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+5 to hit, range 100ft/300ft, 10 targets. Hit 21 (2d10 \+ 10\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Abyss Stat Block

The pinnacle of mechanized warfare, the MXC246 Abyss towers over the battlefield, a titan among machines. Equipped with bipedal legs for unparalleled stability, it boasts formidable armament and unrivaled protection. Slow but relentless, its massive frame strikes fear into the hearts of enemies. With its sheer size and impenetrable armor, the MXC246 Abyss serves as a mobile fortress, capable of withstanding even the most ferocious assaults. A true colossus of war, it dominates the battlefield with its overwhelming presence, crushing all who dare to oppose it.

Armor Class: 23  
Hit points: 200 (20d12 \+ 70\)  
Weight: 6 tons  
Speed: 100ft, 20ft climbing  
Inventory space: 3 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different legs applied for each type of terrain. If the leg matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the leg does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Climbing \- Mechs, although slower than buggies, do have a small amount of climbing speed

Actions:

Fire Anti-personnel Cannon \- ranged weapon attack: \+5 to hit, range 100ft/300ft, 5 targets. Hit  21 (2d10 \+ 10\) elemental damage

Fire Guided Missiles \- ranged weapon attack: \+9 to hit, range 400ft/700ft, 20 targets. Hit 53 (6d10 \+ 20\) elemental damage

Fire Laser Cannon \- ranged weapon attack: \+7 to hit, range 600ft, 1 target. Hit 154 (12d8 \+ 100\) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Havoc Stat Block

A formidable mech designed for both regular combat and siege warfare, the MXRC138 Havoc is a true behemoth on the battlefield. With its bipedal legs providing stability and maneuverability, it is armed for all types of combat situations and features a lockdown mode for devastating siege assaults. Towering in size and slightly smaller than its counterparts, it moves at a deliberate pace but makes up for it with a decent number of weapons. Despite its slower speed, its sheer firepower and resilience make the MXRC138 Havoc a force to be reckoned with, capable of turning the tide of any engagement with its overwhelming presence and devastating siege capabilities.

Armor Class: 26  
Hit points: 250 (20d12 \+ 120\)  
Weight: 8 tons  
Speed: 20ft, 20ft climbing  
Inventory space: 0 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different legs applied for each type of terrain. If the leg matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the leg does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Climbing \- Mechs, although slower than buggies, do have a small amount of climbing speed

Siege Weapon \- An action must put the vehicle into siege mode before it is allowed to fire. The weapon stays in siege mode until moved out of siege mode, and while in siege mode, movement speed is reduced to 0 until taken out of siege mode. Coming out of siege mode also requires an action.

Actions:

Fire Anti-personnel Cannons \- ranged weapon attack: \+5 to hit, range 100ft/300ft, 10 targets. Hit 21 (2d10 \+ 10\) elemental damage

Fire Decimator Cannon \- ranged weapon attack: \+10 to hit, range 900ft/2000ft, 1 target. Hit 280 (20d12 \+150) elemental damage

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

Turbo Stat Block

A lightning-fast mech renowned for its unmatched agility and speed, the FMZ801 Turbo is a marvel of engineering. With its sleek and nimble design, it maneuvers effortlessly across the battlefield, darting past obstacles with ease. Unarmed but equipped with bipedal legs for enhanced mobility, it excels in reconnaissance and hit-and-run missions. Incredibly small yet incredibly fast, the FMZ801 Turbo is a formidable asset for rapid deployment and swift strikes, capable of outmaneuvering and outpacing larger adversaries with ease.

Armor Class: 16  
Hit points: 115 (10d12 \+ 50\)  
Weight: 1 ton  
Speed: 300ft, 100ft climbing  
Inventory space: 10 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different legs applied for each type of terrain. If the leg matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the leg does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Climbing \- Mechs, although slower than buggies, do have a small amount of climbing speed

Actions:

This vehicle has no actions other than movement

Pathfinder Stat Block

A reliable utility truck designed for versatility and efficiency, the F302 Pathfinder is a staple in logistical operations. Unarmed but equipped with moderate speed and a relatively small frame, it navigates both urban streets and rugged terrain with ease. Its compact design allows it to access tight spaces and narrow roads, making it ideal for transporting personnel and essential supplies. While lacking in firepower, its reliability and maneuverability make it an indispensable asset for various support roles on the battlefield.

Armor Class: 15  
Hit points: 105 (10d12 \+ 40\)  
Weight: 2 tons  
Speed: 300ft  
Inventory space: 15 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 2 million gp/20k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different tires applied for each type of terrain. If the tire matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the tire does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Actions:

This vehicle has no actions other than movement

Workhorse Stat Block

A colossal land vehicle renowned for its sheer size and power, the F209 Workhorse is a titan among machines. Unarmed and fairly slow, it compensates with its massive frame, capable of carrying immense payloads and providing essential support on the battlefield. While lacking in speed, its durability and strength make it an indispensable asset for heavy logistics and construction tasks. As the largest land vehicle, the F209 Workhorse is a symbol of reliability and resilience, ensuring the success of critical missions with its unwavering presence.

Armor Class: 20  
Hit points: 170 (20d12 \+ 40\)  
Weight: 9 tons  
Speed: 100ft  
Inventory space: 25 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different tires applied for each type of terrain. If the tire matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the tire does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Actions:

This vehicle has no actions other than movement

Nomad Stat Block

A versatile combat vehicle designed for regular combat operations, the XC523 Nomad combines firepower and resilience on the battlefield. Armed for combat and boasting a larger medium frame, it strikes a balance between firepower and mobility. With average speed and equipped with two weapons, it maneuvers with agility and precision across varied terrain. Its good size offers ample protection for its crew while maintaining maneuverability in combat scenarios. The XC523 Nomad is a reliable asset for offensive and defensive operations, capable of adapting to changing battlefield conditions with ease.

Armor Class: 19  
Hit points: 155 (15d12 \+ 60\)  
Weight: 3 tons  
Speed: 200ft  
Inventory space: 18 slots  
Fuel: 1 Crystalarium crystal per day of operation  
Cost: 5 million gp/50k cc

Features:

Adaptable \- This vehicle can have different tires applied for each type of terrain. If the tire matches the terrain, there are no negative effects. If the tire does not match the terrain, the vehicle movement speed is brought down by 50ft on normal terrain, and cut in half on rough terrain.

Actions:

Fire Anti-personnel Cannon \- ranged weapon attack: \+5 to hit, range 100ft/300ft, 5 targets. Hit 21 (2d10 \+ 10\) elemental damage

Fire Linear Guided Missiles \- ranged weapon attack: Fire a linear guided missile in a straight line directly in front of the vehicle. This missile will continue flying until it hits something. Upon impact, with either an object, a structure, or a creature, the missile explodes in a 10-ft radius, dealing 37 (5d10 \+ 10\) elemental damage to each object caught in the blast. If a creature is in the path of the missile, it can attempt a DC 17 DEX save to dodge the missile, after which the missile will continue forward until it hits a target.

Ammo \- An elemental gem can be used as ammunition, and the damage done is the same type as the elemental gem. Alternatively, you can use a Crystalarium shard, and roll on the elements table to see the type of damage done.

# **Creatures**

## ***Xelis Stat Block***

Xelie are flying apex predators that are like a cross between a dragon and an eagle. Their body is shaped similarly to a dragon’s, with the exception of the legs and talons, which are more eagle-like in appearance. They also are covered in soft down feathers around their entire body, and have much longer eagle-like flight feathers on their massive tails and wings. Their feathers are infused with elemental energy, making them extremely useful for magic users, but it also makes them very protective and hard to cut through. Their head is shaped like a dragon’s, but again, covered in feathers in the same pattern as an eagle. They have extremely sharp teeth in their dragon-like jaws, and breathe elemental power much like a dragon would. They have a combination of a dragon’s tail and an eagle’s, with the top half being more like an eagle, with a trunk-like tail extending from the center more like a dragon. They are huge creatures, standing at 24 feet tall when on two legs, with a 9 foot tail extending from the 5 foot eagle-like tail. Their height when standing on both legs and the wingtips is 10 feet. They are 8 feet wide in the body, have a wingspan between 18 and 45 feet, and weigh around 2,700 lbs.

Huge dragon, Chaotic Neutral

Armor class: 19 (natural armor)  
Hit points: 223 (19d12 \+ 100\)  
Speed: 40ft, climb 40 ft, fly 100ft  
Str: 27 (+8)  
Dex: 10 (+10)  
Con: 25 (+7)  
Int: 16 (+3)  
Wis: 16 (+3)  
Cha: 21 (+5)  
Saving throws: Cha \+11, Con \+13, Dex \+6, Wis \+9  
Skills: Perception \+16, Stealth \+6  
Damage Immunities: inferior and own element  
Senses: Truesight 60ft, Darkvision 120ft, Passive perception 26  
Languages: Common, Draconic, Silveronian  
Challenge: 18 (20,000 xp)  
Legendary Resistance (3/day): if the xelie fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.

Elementally Charged \- Can choose element type for elemental attacks. Only one per creature. Vulnerable to opposing element, and Resistant against inferior element.

Actions:

Multiattack: the xelis can use its Frightful Presence. It then makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws.

Bite \- Melee weapon attack: \+14 to hit, reach 10ft, one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 \+ 8\) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) elemental damage

Claw \- Melee weapon attack: \+14 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 15 (2d6) slashing damage

Tail \- Melee weapon attack: \+14 to hit, reach 15 ft, one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 \+ 8\) bludgeoning damage

Frightful Presence \- Each creature of the xelis’ choice that is within 120 feet of the xelis and aware of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the xelis’ Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours.

Elemental Breath (Recharge 5-6). The xelis exhales elemental power in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, taking 63 (18d6) elemental damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Legendary Actions:

The xelis can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The xelis regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.

Detect \- The xelis makes a Wisdom (Perception) check

Tail Attack \- The xelis makes a tail attack

Wing Attack (costs 2 actions) \- The xelis beats its wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the xelis must succeed on a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw or take 15 (2d6 \+8) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone. The xelis can then fly up to half its flying speed.

## ***Grunli Stat Block***

A Grunli is a powerful and aggressive type of dragon that lives in dense and rugged forests. They use their large horns to smash through obstacles and enemies, and their muscular bodies to withstand attacks. They are very protective of their territory and will not hesitate to challenge any intruders. Grunli are often respected by other forest dragons, who may seek their aid or alliance. Some humans may befriend Grunlis, but only if they prove their strength and loyalty. Grunlis are loyal and brave, but also stubborn and prideful. They enjoy challenges and competitions, and may reward those who impress them with gifts or favors. Grunli feed mostly on fruit and plants, and they are especially fond of the fruit from Wium trees only found in Raiben Vangar.

Large dragon, Chaotic Good

Armor class: 18 (natural armor)  
Hit points: 162 (15d10 \+ 80\)  
Speed: 40 ft, climb 40 ft, fly 80 ft  
Str: 21 (+5)  
Dex: 10 (+0)  
Con: 19 (+4)  
Int: 14 (+2)  
Wis: 13 (+1)  
Cha: 17 (+3)  
Saving throws: Dex \+3, Con \+7, Wis \+4, Cha \+6  
Skills: Insight \+4, Perception \+7, Stealth \-1  
Damage Immunities: Bludgeoning  
Senses: darkvision 120 ft, passive perception 17  
Languages: Common, Draconic, Silveronian  
Challenge: 9 (5,000 XP)

Actions:

Multiattack: the grunli makes three attacks: one with its bite and two with its claws.

Bite \- Melee weapon attack: \+10 to hit, reach 10ft, one target. Hit: 19 (2d10 \+ 8\) piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) elemental damage

Claw \- Melee weapon attack: \+10 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 \+ 4\) slashing damage

Charge \- If the Grunli moves at least 15 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with its bite on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d6 \+ 2\) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 STR save or be knocked prone.

## ***Butraen Stat Block***

Butraen are large, cattle-like beasts with many similarities to the buffalo, or cow. They are about 6 feet tall from foot to head, 8 feet long from nose to hindquarters, and weigh an average of 2 tons. They are covered in long shaggy brown, white, and black fur. Their head is very round and stumpy, similar to a buffalo, and their horns are made of Ivorine, a material similar to ivory, but much stronger. Their horns also have the ability to grow back if broken off, and they are shaped much like that of a moose. They are a favored food of meites and vortzhe, as well as Silveronians in general. Butraen are power infused, and use their powers to 1\) charge their horns to attack, and 2\) hardening their skin into a diamond-like coating. When they stampede, it is like an army of tanks moving at close to 70 mph.

Large Beast, Neutral Good

Armor class: 17  
Hit points: 186 (20d12 \+ 56\)  
Speed: 50ft  
Str: 20  
Dex: 12  
Con: 20  
Int: 6  
Wis: 16  
Cha: 14  
Skills: Perception \+7  
Senses: Darkvision 50 ft., Passive Perception 16  
Languages: Butraen  
Challenge: 2 (450 xp)

Elementally Charged \- Can choose element type for elemental attacks. Only one per creature. Vulnerable to opposing element, and Resistant against inferior element.

Actions:

Horn Infusion \-  Invigoration spell: The creature’s gore attack has an additional 2d12 of elemental damage on its next turn

Iron skin \- Invigoration spell: the creature’s skin turns to a hardened stone made of elemental power, adding 3 to the creature’s AC for the next two attacks, but reducing its movement speed to half

Gore \- melee weapon attack: \+7 to hit, reach 10 ft, one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 \+ 6\) piercing damage. If the Butraen moves at least ten feet toward the target of this attack before it makes the attack, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Str save or be pushed up to 10 feet away and knocked prone. If the Butraen moves thirty feet or every ten feet after that, an additional 1d8 is added to the roll.

## ***Vortzhe Stat Block***

Vortzhen are massive, wolf-like creatures with many similarities to both wolves and bear. They are roughly 8 feet tall to shoulder, 14 feet long from snout to tail, and weigh an average of 600 lbs. They are covered in thick black, silver, or brown fur. Their heads are very much canine, with large fangs and powerful jaws, and their bodies are large and powerful, while also fast and agile. They are similar to dire wolves, but are much larger and stronger. They also have powerful nature abilities, and can use their powers to make themselves stronger. They can almost instantly accelerate to their max running speeds of 70-100mph, which they can maintain for up to 30 seconds. Standard trot speeds are close to 20-30mph. They also have hollow bones and incredibly strong muscles, which allow them to be very light, very fast, and very efficient. Can easily sustain running from 40-60mph for long distances.

Large beast, Neutral

Armor Class: 13  
Hit points: 131 (14d12 \+ 40\)  
Speed: 60ft  
Str: 18  
Dex: 18  
Con: 13  
Int: 18  
Wis: 11  
Cha: 8  
Skills: Perception \+6, Intimidation \+7  
Senses: passive Perception \+18  
Languages: Common, Wolven, Silveronian  
Challenge: 7 (2,900)

Elementally Charged \- Can choose damage type for elemental claw attack.

Actions: 

Multiattack \- The vortzhe makes two claw attacks.

Elemental Claws \- Supportive Ability: The creature’s claw attack is reduced to a single attack with the addition of 2d12 elemental damage

Claws \- Melee weapon attack: \+9 to hit, reach 10 ft, one target. Hit: 15 (2d10 \+ 4\) slashing damage.

## ***Vortzhe Pup Stat Block***

Vortzhen are massive, wolf-like creatures with many similarities to both wolves and bear. The young are roughly 4 feet tall from foot to head, 7 feet long from snout to tail, and weigh an average of 300 lbs. They are covered in thick black, silver, or brown fur. Their heads are very much canine, with large fangs and powerful jaws, and their bodies are large and powerful, while also fast and agile. They are similar to dire wolves, but are much larger and stronger. They also have powerful nature abilities, and can use their powers to make themselves stronger.

Medium beast, Neutral

Armor Class: 13  
Hit points: 65 (7d12 \+ 20\)  
Speed: 30ft  
Str: 14 (+2)  
Dex: 16 (+3)  
Con: 13 (+1)  
Int: 14 (+2)  
Wis: 10 (+0)  
Cha: 8 (-1)  
Skills: Perception \+4, Intimidation \+5  
Senses: passive Perception 16  
Languages: Common, Wolven, Silveronian  
Challenge: 2 (450 XP)

Elementally Charged \- Can choose damage type for elemental claw attack.

Actions: 

Multiattack \- The vortzhe makes two claw attacks.

Elemental Claws \- Supportive Ability: The creature’s claw attack is reduced to a single attack with the addition of 2d6 elemental damage

Claws \- Melee weapon attack: \+6 to hit, reach 10 ft, one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 \+ 3\) slashing damage.

## ***Meite Stat Block***

Meites are massive, ape-like creatures with large claws and the ability to wield elemental powers. They are roughly 16 feet tall and weigh an average of 4000 pounds. Their natural armor is similar to that of an armadillo, and covers most of their arms, backs, and legs. Their arms are large and powerful, while their legs are shorter, and their heads are similar to that of a pangolin, but with slightly sharper teeth. They are feared by most Silveronians as one of the apex predators of the Ninjonian cluster.

Huge beast, Chaotic Neutral

Armor Class: 14  
Hit Points: 157 (15d12 \+ 60\)  
Speed: 40ft, climb 40ft  
Str: 23 (+6)  
Dex: 14 (+2)  
Con: 18 (+4)  
Int: 13 (+1)  
Wis: 13 (+1)  
Cha: 11 (+0)  
Skills: Perception \+4, Intimidation \+9  
Senses: passive Perception \+14, Darkvision 60 ft  
Languages: Common, Silveronian  
Challenge: 7 (2,900)

Elementally Charged \- Can choose element type for elemental orb attack. Only one per creature. Vulnerable to opposing element, and Resistant against inferior element.

Actions: 

Multiattack \- The meite makes two attacks: one with its elemental orb and the other with its claws

Elemental orb \- Ranged ability attack: \+9 to hit, range 50/100 ft, one target. Hit: 30 (7d6 \+ 6\) elemental damage.

Claws \- Melee weapon attack: \+9 to hit, reach 10 ft, one target. Hit: 22 (3d10 \+ 6\) slashing damage.

## ***Muxlope Stat Block***

AC: 11 (natural armor) 

HP: 50 (6d10 \+ 17\)

Speed: 40 ft. 

STR: 21 (+5)  
DEX: 8 (-1)  
CON: 15 (+2)  
INT: 2 (-4)  
WIS: 12 (+1)  
CHA: 6 (-2)

Senses: Passive Perception 10

Languages \-- 

Challenge 2 (450 XP)

Charge. If the muxlope moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a gore attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked [prone](https://www.dndbeyond.com/compendium/rules/basic-rules/appendix-a-conditions#Prone).

Actions

Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: \+7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d8 \+ 5\) bludgeoning damage.

## ***Reifnen Stat Block***

Reifnen are small, fluffy creatures with tall, pointy ears and a long, fluffy tail. They have four feline legs, a slim, long, frail body, and a long triangular snout, much like a fox. They have a very powerful little nose, and six eyes, three on each side, arranged in a triangular pattern. They are mainly herbivores, feasting on grass, weeds, and flowers, but they sometimes scavenge carcasses for food, when plantlife is scarce. They grow to be up to 15 inches tall, and up to 20 pounds. Reifnen are typically found in forest environments, but variants can also be found in deserts, marshes, and the arctic. Their claws are typically used for digging, scavenging, and defending themselves.

Small Beast, Chaotic Neutral

Armor Class: 10  
Hit Points: 5 (1d4 \+ 3\)  
Speed: 30ft, burrow 5ft  
Str: 8 (-1)  
Dex: 15 (+2)  
Con: 12 (+1)  
Int: 6 (-2)  
Wis: 12 (+1)  
Cha: 8 (-1)  
Skills: Perception \+4  
Senses: passive Perception 18, Darkvision 60 ft  
Languages: Understands Common and Silveronian  
Challenge: 0 (10 XP)

Elementally Charged \- Can choose damage type for bite attack. Only one per creature. 

Actions: 

Multiattack \- The Reifnen makes two attacks: one bite attack and one claw attack

Bite \- Melee weapon attack: \+1 to hit, range 5 ft, one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 \+ 2\) piercing damage and 1d4 elemental damage

Claws \- Melee weapon attack: \+1 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) slashing damage

## ***Eabit Stat Block***

Medium beast, neutral good

Armor class: 16  
Hit points: 62 (8d12 \+ 10\)  
Speed: 60ft  
Str: 16 (+3)  
Dex: 12 (+1)  
Con: 14 (+2)  
Int: 2 (-4)  
Wis: 12 (+1)  
Cha: 5 (-3)  
Senses: Passive Perception 11  
Languages: Understands Common  
Challenge: 3 (700xp)

Actions: 

Kick \- Melee weapon attack: \+6 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target. Hit: 11 (3d6 \+ 3\) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC12 STR save or be knocked prone

***——— (Warrion Deer) Stat Block***

***——— (Ninjarika Deer) Stat Block***

***——— (Ninji Alien Deer) Stat Block***

***——— (Majestic Silveronian Deer) Stat Block***

## **Savaroen Recruit *Medium humanoid (Krenpowen), typically Lawful Evil or Neutral Evil***

**Armor Class** 15 (Silveronian Armor) **Hit Points** 38 (7d8 \+ 7\) **Speed** 30 ft.

**STR** 12 (+1) 

**DEX** 10 (+0) 

**CON** 13 (+1) 

**INT** 10 (+0) 

**WIS** 10 (+0) 

**CHA** 12 (+1)

**Skills** Perception \+2, Intimidation \+3 

**Damage Resistances** Fire 

**Damage Vulnerabilities** Cold (if using Opposing/Inferior rules strictly) 

**Senses** Passive Perception 12 

**Languages** Common, Silveronian 

**Challenge** 1/2 (100 XP) 

**Proficiency Bonus** \+2

***Elemental Affinity (Fire).*** The recruit's attacks and abilities are infused with fire. It has resistance to fire damage (and potentially vulnerability to cold damage, depending on how strictly you apply the element rules to NPCs).

***Basic Combat Training.*** The recruit is proficient with simple and martial weapons.

**Actions**

* **Multiattack.** The recruit makes two Shortsword attacks.  
* **Shortsword.** *Melee Weapon Attack:* \+2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. *Hit:* 3 (1d6) piercing damage.  
* **Elemental Bolt.** *Ranged Spell Attack:* \+3 to hit, range 60 ft., one target. *Hit:* 5 (1d8 \+ 1\) fire damage.

**Equipment** Silveronian Armor, Shortsword, 4d4 cc.

---

**Design Choices & Balance:**

* **CR:** Aimed for CR 1/2. HP (38) is in the CR 1/4 range, but AC 14 pushes defensive CR towards 1/2. The Fire Resistance significantly increases Effective HP against fire, potentially pushing defensive CR higher in certain encounters. Offensively, Multiattack with Shortsword deals average 11 damage per round (DPR), which is solidly in the CR 1/2 range (target 6-8, but Multiattack bumps it). The Elemental Bolt offers a slightly weaker ranged option. Overall, CR 1/2 feels appropriate – tougher than a Bandit or Guard (CR 1/8), comparable to a Thug or Orc (CR 1/2).  
* **Savaroen Flavor:**  
  * Included elemental resistance (Fire) and vulnerability (Cold) if you use that rule for NPCs. Vulnerability makes them riskier but fits the lore. If you omit vulnerability for mooks, their Defensive CR is more reliably 1/2.  
  * Included a basic ranged elemental attack (`Elemental Bolt`) using CHA, distinct from their weapon attacks using DEX.  
  * Used Krenpowen as the base race example.  
  * Gave Intimidation proficiency fitting the "Warrior" theme.  
* **Simplification:** Avoided complex mechanics like damage type switching, Philosophies, Specialties, Deep Focus, extensive spell lists. Rising Power is abstracted into their base damage output. Multiattack at low CR represents basic training allowing two quick strikes.  
* **Role:** Functions similarly to standard low-level humanoid enemies like Orcs, Thugs, or Hobgoblins – dangerous in groups, uses basic melee or a ranged elemental option, reasonably sturdy for their level.

This stat block provides a simple, usable Savaroen enemy template that fits the "slightly tougher bandit" role, incorporating key elemental flavor without excessive complexity for the DM to manage in encounters. You can easily swap the element (e.g., change Resistance/Vulnerability and Elemental Bolt damage type) for variety.

